DOC Improve user guide on scoring parameter (#30316)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/modules/model_evaluation.rst

* **Estimator score method**: Estimators have a ``score`` method providing a
  default evaluation criterion for the problem they are designed to solve.

>   Most commonly this is mean :ref:`accuracy <accuracy_score>` for classifiers and the

Author: Yeah good pick up, I have also noticed that we use "mean accuracy" and "accuracy" somewhat inconsistently in our docs.

My initial thought was that we use "mean", for multi-label cases, but I realise that is not the case.

From our docs 'accuracy' is "either the fraction (default) or the count (normalize=False) of correct predictions." so I think by definition its 'over all samples in the test set'. (and if we are returning count, there is no averaging here at all).

I would vote for removing 'mean' where we are referring to the accuracy score.

>   Most commonly this is mean :ref:`accuracy <accuracy_score>` for classifiers and the

Reviewer: Oh, I just understood better what "mean accuracy" refers to: when we use re-sampling like in a cross-validation and pass 'accuracy_score' as an argument into the `scoring` param, we return the mean over all the accuracy scores archived over all the `k` folds instead of returning all the accuracy scores separately.

It is not what I have thought in the beginning.

  :ref:`coefficient of determination <r2_score>` (:math:`R^2`) for regressors.

>   Details for each estimator can be found in it's documentation.

Author: I had to look it up but I *think* it is singular: https://editorsmanual.com/articles/each-singular-or-plural/ ?

The ``scoring`` parameter: defining model evaluation rules
==========================================================

Model selection and evaluation using tools that use
:ref:`cross-validation <cross_validation>` (such as
:class:`model_selection.GridSearchCV`, :func:`model_selection.validation_curve` and

> :class:`linear_model.LogisticRegressionCV`) take a ``scoring`` parameter that

Author: Wanted to give examples outside of the `model_selection` module.

controls what metric they apply to the estimators evaluated.

They can be specified in several ways:

* `None`: the estimator's default evaluation criterion (i.e., the metric used in the
  estimators `score` method) is used.
* :ref:`String name <scoring_string_names>`: common metrics can be passed via a string
  name.

> * :ref:`Callable <scoring_callable>`: more complex metrics can be passed via a callable

Author: Hmm I what about:

"more complex metrics can be passed via a custom metric callable" ?

I don't think 'complex metric' and 'custom metric' have an 'or' relationship, if that makes sense?

  the ``greater_is_better`` parameter to ``False`` (``True`` by default; see the
  parameter description below).

> .. _scoring_make_scorer:

Author: Okay outline of sections is now:

```
* :ref:`scoring_adapt_metric` (least flexible)
* :ref:`scoring_make_scorer`
  * Using `make_scorer` (more flexible)
  * From scratch (most flexible)
```
the last 2 sub-bullets are both in their own drop down.

Custom scorer objects using `make_scorer`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The second use case is to build a completely custom scorer object
from a simple python function using :func:`make_scorer`, which can
take several parameters:

* the python function you want to use (``my_custom_loss_func``
  in the example below)

* whether the python function returns a score (``greater_is_better=True``,
  the default) or a loss (``greater_is_better=False``).  If a loss, the output
  of the python function is negated by the scorer object, conforming to
  the cross validation convention that scorers return higher values for better models.

* for classification metrics only: whether the python function you provided requires
  continuous decision certainties. If the scoring function only accepts probability

>   estimates (e.g. :func:`metrics.log_loss`) then one needs to set the parameter
>   `response_method`, thus in this case `response_method="predict_proba"`. Some scoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  estimates (e.g. :func:`metrics.log_loss`) then one needs to set
  `response_method="predict_proba"`. Some scoring
```

>   function do not necessarily require probability estimates but rather non-thresholded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  functions do not necessarily require probability estimates but rather non-thresholded
```

  decision values (e.g. :func:`metrics.roc_auc_score`). In this case, one provides a

>   list such as `response_method=["decision_function", "predict_proba"]`. In this case,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  list such as `response_method=["decision_function", "predict_proba"]` and
```

To prevent multiple "in this case".

  the scorer will use the first available method, in the order given in the list,
  to compute the scores.

> * any additional parameters, such as ``beta`` or ``labels`` in :func:`f1_score`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* any additional parameters of the scoring function, such as ``beta`` or ``labels``.
```
`f1_score` is only one of several that can take additional params.

Here is an example of building custom scorers, and of using the
``greater_is_better`` parameter::

    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> def my_custom_loss_func(y_true, y_pred):
    ...     diff = np.abs(y_true - y_pred).max()
    ...     return np.log1p(diff)
    ...
    >>> # score will negate the return value of my_custom_loss_func,
    >>> # which will be np.log(2), 0.693, given the values for X
    >>> # and y defined below.
    >>> score = make_scorer(my_custom_loss_func, greater_is_better=False)
    >>> X = [[1], [1]]
    >>> y = [0, 1]
    >>> from sklearn.dummy import DummyClassifier
    >>> clf = DummyClassifier(strategy='most_frequent', random_state=0)
    >>> clf = clf.fit(X, y)
    >>> my_custom_loss_func(y, clf.predict(X))
    0.69...
    >>> score(clf, X, y)
    -0.69...

> .. _diy_scoring:

Reviewer 2: By doing a grep it seems that `diy_scoring` is not referenced elsewhere in the documentation. Maybe the preamble paragraph here was meant to avoid breaking the cross-reference, but can now be completely inside the dropdown, to simplify a bit.

Author: To clarify, are you suggesting that we move the "Custom scorer objects from scratch" section into a dropdown, and then we'd rename the above "Custom scorer objects using `make_scorer`" section to just be called "Custom scorer objects" ?

Custom scorer objects from scratch
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can generate even more flexible model scorers by constructing your own

> scoring object from scratch, without using the :func:`make_scorer` factory.

Author: Hmm yes this is a good point. AFAICT the `make_scorer` is irrelevant here, we're really just showing that we should import the scorer. 

Potentially this section has just been moved to live with the diy custom scorer section with the dropdown re-shuffling?

I am going to remove the `make_scorer` part as it's not relevant.

> scoring object from scratch, without using the :func:`make_scorer` factory.

Author: Actually this note should apply to both types of custom scorers, I am going to put it in it's own drop down at the end?

But happy to change, just let me know.

.. currentmodule:: sklearn.metrics

The :mod:`sklearn.metrics` module implements several loss, score, and utility
functions to measure clustering performance. For more information see the

> :ref:`clustering_evaluation` section for instance clustering, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`clustering_evaluation` section for clustering, and
```

Author: I don't think this is a typo, I think "instance clustering" is referring clustering of a single row, to differentiate it from biclustering, though I understand its a technical term and can read confusing.
